.TH AND.CONF 5 "__DATE__" "Unix" "File Formats"

.SH "NAME"
/etc/and.conf \- general configuration parameters for the
auto nice daemon.


.SH "VERSION"
This manual page documents and.conf for
.B and
version __VERSION__.


.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This is the general configuration file for
.B and.
It stores settings like the default nice level, the renice intervals,
the three stages of renicing, and the affinity of the priority database,
i.e. the weight of (user, group, command) when resolving nice levels
from the database. These settings are described below.

Comments start with a # in the
.B first column.
Empty lines are ignored. Unlike with other configuration files, lines
.B cannot be concatenated
with a backslash. Furthermore, this file is
.B case sensitive.

.B and
allows for host-specific sections in the configuration file. These work
as lines of the form
.I on somehost
and work as follows: the parser determines if the host name (as returned
by gethostname) matches the extended regular expression that follows the
.I on
keyword. If it does, it just keeps processing the file as if nothing had
happened. If it does not match, however, everything up to the next
.I on
keyword is skipped. So if you want to end a host-specific section, you
must write
.I on .*
(which matches all hosts) to switch back to normal.

Don't forget to
.B kill -HUP
the auto nice daemon to enable the changes.


.SH "SETTINGS"

.TP 0.5i
.B defaultnice
The default nice level. A number between 0 and 19. Jobs for which no
entry can be found in
.I /etc/and.priorities
are reniced to this level, regardless of the CPU time they've used
so far. If you prefer to renice unknown jobs gradually, you can do
so by supplying three asterisks as (user, group, command) tuple in
.I /etc/and.priorities.
The default nice level is
.I 0

.TP 0.5i
.B interval
The default interval between nice checks of the auto nice daemon,
in seconds. This value can be overridden by the
.I -i
command-line option of
.B and.
The default interval is
.I 60
seconds.

.TP 0.5i
.B lv1time
.TP 0.5i
.B lv2time
.TP 0.5i
.B lv3time
Ranges for the nice levels. Jobs with less than lv1time seconds
CPU time are not reniced; jobs between lv1time and lv2time seconds
are reniced to the first level in an.priorities; jobs between
lv2time and lv3time seconds to the second level; jobs with more
than lv3time seconds are reniced to the third level.
Defaults are
.I 120
,
.I 1200
, and
.I 3600
seconds.

.TP 0.5i
.B lv1cmd, lv2cmd, lv3cmd
Commands for the nice levels.  Jobs that reach a new level, and have their
priorities changed, will cause the corresponding command to be executed.  The
commands are executed using
.B popen(3)
and an informational message describing the offending job is piped in.  In
addition, the following environment variables will be set, so you can reference
them in the given command-line:

.RS
.TP 0.5i
.B AND_HOST
The host where
.I and
is running.

.TP 0.5i
.B AND_PID
The process ID of the offending job.

.TP 0.5i
.B AND_PPID
The parent process ID of the offending job.

.TP 0.5i
.B AND_USER
The user name the offending job is running with.

.TP 0.5i
.B AND_GROUP
The group name the offending job is running with.

.TP 0.5i
.B AND_COMMAND
The command name of the offending job.
.RE

.RS
Normally, the command is executed as "nobody", or the user specified by the
.I cmduser
setting.  While this environment is limiting, it is enough to send mail or
perform some other simple communication.
.RE

.TP 0.5i
.B cmduser
The user name to use when running level commands.  The default value for
this is "nobody", which should be sufficient for most uses.

.TP 0.5i
.B minuid, mingid
Minimum user id and group id to be considered for renicing. 
Processes whose user id is below 
.I minuid
are left alone, as are processes with a group id of below 
.I mingid.
(Note that even if you set minuid to zero, root processes are
left alone.)

.TP 0.5i
.B affinity
Strategy for picking the right priority entry for a user/group/job
triple. The strategy is a permutation of "cgu", "c"ommand, "g"roup,
"u"ser. The order specifies the affinity of the priority lookup
method. Suppose you have an entry for all jobs of user
.I foo,
another entry for all jobs of group
.I bar,
and yet another entry for the command
.I baz.
Furthermore suppose user
.I foo
(who happens to belong to group
.I bar
) starts a job named
.I baz
-- which entry should be chosen? This is what the affinity setting
means, for example "cug" means an exact match of the command has priority
over both an exact match of the user and the group. The default affinity is
"cug", which is probably sensible for most cases, since it's the job
which takes up CPU time, not the user or group ID.


.SH "EXAMPLES"

.TP 0.5i
.B Default Configuration
# This is the default configuration:
.br
default 0
.br
interval 60
.br
lv1time 300
.br
lv2time 1800
.br
lv3time 3600
.br
affinity cug
.br
minuid 0
.br
mingid 0
.br

.TP 0.5i
.B Default Configuration, with terminals
# Normal default configuration for all
.br
default 0
.br
interval 60
.br
lv1time 300
.br
lv2time 1800
.br
lv3time 3600
.br
# Get someone involved if they reach level 3
.br
lv3cmd mail -s "CPU Hog - $AND_COMMAND" bofh@foobar.com
.br
# Hosts foo, bar, baz are terminals and must
.br
# be more responsive, so earlier renice.
.br
on (foo|bar)
.br
lv1time 120
.br
lv2time 600
.br
lv3time 1200
.br
on .*
.br
# This is for all hosts again
.br
affinity cug
.br

.TP 0.5i
.B Group-specific Hosts
.br
default 0
.br
interval 60
.br
lv1time 300
.br
lv2time 1800
.br
lv3time 3600
.br
# Normal affinity for all hosts.
.br
affinity cug
.br
# Hosts bar, baz belong to group foo, which
.br
# is privilegued on these hosts, so override
.br
# affinity. (Note regexp!)
.br
on ba[rz]
.br
affinity guc
.br
on .*
.br
minuid 500
.br
mingid 100
.br


.SH "FILES"

.TP 0.5i
.B  /etc/and.conf
General configuration file. Stores default nice level, default interval,
the "time zones" and the database lookup affinity. This is what this
manual page is about.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR and (8),
.BR and.priorities (5),
.BR kill (1),
.BR regex (7),
.BR renice (8)


.SH "INTERNET"
.B http://and.sourceforge.net/


.SH "AUTHOR"
The auto nice daemon and this manual page were written by
Patrick Schemitz <schemitz@users.sourceforge.net>
